Checkpoint 1: Data Cleaning 1
Load the companies and rounds data (provided on the previous page) into two data frames and name them companies and rounds2 respectively.
Table 1.1: The table below is just for reference — you need to fill out the spreadsheet which is attached in the download section. This holds true for all the tables.
 

Results Expected: Table 1.1

 Table 1.1: Understand the Data Set 

How many unique companies are present in rounds2?	
 

How many unique companies are present in companies?	                       
In the companies data frame, which column can be used as the unique key for each company? Write the name of the column.	 
Are there any companies in the rounds2 file which are not present in companies? Answer yes or no: Y/N	 
Merge the two data frames so that all variables (columns) in the companies frame are added to the rounds2 data frame. Name the merged frame master_frame. How many observations are present in master_frame?

 
 

After this, you will need to work only with the master frame.

 

Checkpoint 2: Funding Type Analysis
This is the first of the three goals of data analysis – investment type analysis.

 

The funding types such as seed, venture, angel, etc. depend on the type of the company (startup, corporate, etc.), its stage (early stage startup, funded startup, etc.), the amount of funding (a few million USD to a billion USD), and so on. For example, seed, angel and venture are three common stages of startup funding.

Seed/angel funding refer to early stage startups whereas venture funding occurs after seed or angel stage/s and involves a relatively higher amount of investment.
Private equity type investments are associated with much larger companies and involve much higher investments than venture type. Startups which have grown in scale may also receive private equity funding. This means that if a company has reached the venture stage, it would have already passed through the angel or seed stage/s.
 

Spark Funds wants to choose one of these four investment types for each potential investment they will make.

 

Considering the constraints of Spark Funds, you have to decide one funding type which is most suitable for them.

Calculate the most representative value of the investment amount for each of the four funding types (venture, angel, seed, and private equity) and report the answers in Table 2.1

Based on the most representative investment amount calculated above, which investment type do you think is the most suitable for Spark Funds?

 

Considering that Spark Funds wants to invest between 5 to 15 million USD per investment round, which investment type is the most suitable for it? Identify the investment type and, for further analysis, filter the data so it only contains the chosen investment type.

 

Great! You have crossed two checkpoints. There are four checkpoints left now.

